[Music]
to see one of the most significant
astronomical events of all time
we go to south america in the atacama
desert chile
we find the most advanced technology for
space observation
here the royal astronomical community
members
watched for six months as a black hole
simply absorbed a massive star
by the way these are the same scientists
to prove
that in the center of our milky way
galaxy is a super massive black hole
and even took a photo of it for the
first time in history
this incredible event happened very
close to earth
well the distance of 215 million light
years
is considered quite close in astronomy
terms anyway
light from this event reached our planet
in september of 2019
and even the most experienced scientists
dropped their jaws in surprise
imagine a star the size of our sun about
000 miles wide such stars have enough
weight
to create a strong gravitational field
holding many planets in their orbit
and now let's place a giant black hole
next to it
the hole is absolutely black shaped like
a disk
and weighs a billion times more than
this star
the force of its gravitational field is
incredible
nothing can leave its gravity force
objects that can move at the speed of
light
will still fall into this black abyss
even light itself
cannot escape its boundaries as soon as
a star enters the gravitational field of
a black hole
it has no chance at first it tries to
resist the pull of the black hole
still the star's outer layers begin to
stretch
toward the black hole just like
spaghetti
this is due to a powerful force of
attraction if you had the opportunity to
extend your hand
toward the black hole you would see your
fingers begin to stretch
and elongate this is because the force
of attraction
increases with every inch therefore it
acts stronger on your fingers than on
your arm
that's why this process of pulling
objects into a black hole
is called spaghettification the first
thing to be sucked into the black hole
is the star's crown this is the outer
shell of the star
which consists of hot plasma you may
notice how the star begins to shrink in
size
this is because that plasma makes up
most of the visible side
when this hot plasma spaghetti reaches
the black hole
it may appear to remain on the disk's
edge and continue to orbit the black
hole
but in fact there is no turning back
anymore
the star's particles have already hit
the event horizon of the
dark abyss the gravitational field of a
black hole
bends light around its edges so the
event horizon looks a bit like a
croissant for the observer
boy lots of food metaphors here i'm
getting hungry
you may also notice a kind of chaos in
this ring
as if some light particles are moving in
one direction
and others in another this happens
because of a mirror effect
but you can be sure that whatever
reaches the event horizon will
sooner or later be pulled into the
singularity
or the black pearl of the black hole
another illusion you spot is the star
particles in the event horizon moving
slower
the truth is that supermassive objects
like a black hole
curve space-time around them and the
more massive the object
the slower time flows near it if you
hang
one watch beside a black hole and
another on a wall in your bedroom
you will see that the second hand in the
first watch barely moves
while a whole day passes on earth as
observers
it seems to us that the particles of
light have slowed their movement
but in fact they may have already been
absorbed by the black hole
ages ago now massive streams of red hot
plasma splash into space
just like spaghetti sauce when a black
hole has absorbed star
material it emits powerful rays of
energy at a rate of about
6 200 miles per second
this release of energy is accompanied by
an intense flash
it's thanks to this flash that
scientists can even detect this process
in the first place this phenomenon can
be observed when a supernova explodes
when nothing remains of the star's body
we can still see
stardust and other particles in the
black hole's event horizon
kind of like the parmesan cheese
sprinkled on the spaghetti
hey stop me if i'm taking this too far
when the process of spaghettification
is completed about half of the star's
weight has been thrown
into outer space as dust and glowing
particles
the other half was entirely absorbed by
the black hole
the scientists observed this process for
almost six months
but what would be more interesting is to
dive into a black hole yourself
well we can't do that yet but we can
simulate this process
here's a little drone our metal friend
kind of like a meatball
no i haven't had lunch yet right now
it's at a safe distance from the black
hole
the length of about three widths of the
event horizon
objects at this distance can orbit the
black hole safely
a little closer and it'll be swallowed
up by a dark infinity
so our destroyed star could have safely
existed at this distance
moreover planets can live at this
distance and if there is a suitable
source of light and heat somewhere
nearby
life can exist on these planets too but
our goal is the singularity and we guide
the meatball
i mean the drone closer to the event
horizon
after a few minutes the force of
attraction begins to strengthen
and the drone starts to stretch like
spaghetti
when it begins spinning around the black
disk it means
it has reached the event horizon and has
started its descent into the black abyss
now let's look at everything from the
drone's perspective
all the light from the stars that it
sees becomes blue this is called
gravitational blue shift
as it falls into the black hole its
gravitational field
pulls the photons of light down giving
them energy
their wavelengths grow shorter so the
red photons change into
blue the drone continues to fall and is
already completely hidden from our eyes
and all that the robot sees is a bright
thin blue beam
now it's in complete darkness there's
absolutely nothing here
not even time here time goes so slowly
that our entire solar system could grow
old and cease to exist
during a minute spent in a black hole
but our drone will live until its
battery is empty
hey the drone sees a small bundle of
light again
and it's getting closer and more
prominent now the drone will experience
the same
fall only in reverse once the drone
leaves the singularity
the heart of the black hole it will be
on the event horizon once again
the light from the stars gradually
changes from blue to red
then the drone is thrown into outer
space perhaps in some
far away galaxy well returning from a
black hole is just a theory
some people think that black holes are a
kind of wormhole
that can lead us to distant places in
space but
so far these theories are considered
fiction
black holes are quite challenging to
detect
the problem is they are well black
just like space they don't emit light
like stars
so they can only be detected by gravity
anomalies
despite this scientists believe there
are a vast numbers of black holes in our
universe
they're born when a massive star
collapses under its own weight
and given the infinite number of stars
in the universe
black holes are probably a common
phenomenon
scientists believe black holes have
their own lifetimes
this is because of hawking radiation a
black hole loses mass
and so to continue existing it has to
absorb
massive objects like the star we just
watched but if the black hole
lives in deep space it has less to
absorb
and will most likely begin to shrink
until it just disappears
like this plate of spaghetti